 

 

is It Possible To Go Completely Paperless InA Law Office?! Above http://above,thelaw.com/20l4/07/is-itepossibl‘e-toego-completer-pape...

"29f12'

 

E]

For the rest of usj it is a matter of two things: (1) convenience, and (2) efﬁciency/billable
hours. I know it’s weird to see efﬁciency and billable hours used in the same sentence
without a negative in there somewhere, but if you have ever had three hours of time
written off for looking all over the whole ofﬁce for that one document that was dropped on
the ﬁle clerk’s desk last week, you know what I’m talking about. Sometimes when you
charge by the‘hour, it is good to work efﬁciently. So, I Want to discuss whether it’s possible
to go almost completely paperless and what steps we can take to get there.

Why Go Paperless?

I am mostly paperless and it’s great. I know where all of my things are and I can ﬁnd them
instantly. My desk has no clutter. I don’t have to get nervous when I put client medical
records in the trash or worry about shredding. My ofﬁce is not paralyzed when the toner
Waste drum breaks or when the machine tells me there is a jam in tray 3, but I’m looking
there and there is no jam. I have a signiﬁcantly reduced ﬁle storage area and paper/printer

supply closet. In short, my ofﬁce looks like Captain Picard’s ready room, only with less
Earl Grey.

, There are some times when you are going to have to print things on paper because you go

to trial and have to make exhibit binders, or you live in a Village that does not have e—ﬁling
for state courts yet, but we can’t ﬁx that. Instead, I am only discussing here What we can do

to get as close as possible to going paperless.

Bates Stamping the Old Way

I worked for a ﬁrm that did all of its Bates stamping by hand With printable mailing labels.

All Bates-stamped documents would have an “Original” ﬁle, the “Bates stamp” copy, and
the “Produced” copy. The Bates copy looked ridiculous because the bottom right corner
was twice as thick because of the sticker label. It made the ﬁle fan out and it would never

. stack right on the shelf.

Bates Stamping the New Way

Adobe Acrobat comes with a Bates—stamping tool:

4/6/2015 9:08 PM.

